<<include path="../partials/header.html" title="Contributing – Blog – Flourish">>

= Contributing =

Recently there has been some increased interest in contributing to Flourish.
If you are interested in helping out with the project, I’m sure that everyone
who uses it would be very grateful. The way that things of have been going
recently, I’m going to start focusing more on approaching a stable release.
Over the past year the beta has helped to improve the available functionality,
increase its robustness and work out quite a number of bugs.

As the code moves to a stable release, I foresee more of a focus on improving
[/docs documentation] and writing [/docs/Tests tests]. There are
also currently a number of tickets for enhancements, plus there are some items
on the [/docs/Roadmap original roadmap] still to tackle.

So, if you do have interest in contributing to the project, please consider how
you may be able to help out with:

 - Writing patches for tickets
 - Reading the [/docs documentation] and providing edits or
   improvements
 - Writing [/docs/Tests tests]
 - Answering questions in the [http://forum.flourishlib.com forums]

I’m currently not looking to add much more to Flourish. Right now it serves as
a fairly general-purpose library for website and application development,
without being tied into third party services and without getting too much into
markup generation. It has fairly good support across different environments and
databases, and provides a more stream-lined API for a lot that is already
possible with PHP.

Third party services — things like twitter, flickr, payment gateways, etc — all
require keeping up with changes to the APIs. I feel that individual libraries
will be better able to keep up with changes to the services and providing
product-specific features. In regards to the generation of HTML, since there
are so many different approaches and styles, I think staying out of that arena
as much as possible will help me to stay focused on what Flourish already does.

If you are interested in writing code or editing documentation, please note
that you will need to sign a [/docs/ContributorLicenseAgreements contributor
license agreement] (CLA) to help protect users of Flourish and myself from
legal issues.

<<include path="../partials/footer.html">>