<<include path="../partials/header.html" title="DB2 Support Added – Blog – Flourish">>

= DB2 Support Added =

Last night I completed the final additions to the core database layer of
Flourish by adding support for [http://www.ibm.com/db2 IBM's DB2]. Along with
support in all of the core database classes, such as fDatabase and fResult,
DB2 support was added to fSchema and fSQLTranslation, which means that DB2
is fully supported by the ORM. The [/docs/FlourishSql Flourish SQL] page has
been updated to show the non-translated compatibility of DB2 to the other
supported databases.

Currently only the [http://php.net/ibm_db2 ibm_db2] extension is supported for
DB2 access due to issues with the others. The [http://php.net/pdo_ibm pdo_ibm]
extension currently has serious issues that cause PHP to segfault when trying
to access CLOB or BLOB data. The [http://php.net/odbc odbc] and
[http://php.net/pdo_odbc pdo_odbc] drivers are not currently supported because
I have not found a way to get proper UTF-8 support on Windows machines. If you
have any experience with DB2 on Windows, please
[http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/forums/thread.jspa?threadID=325160&tstart=0
check out my post] on the IBM developerWorks forum.

In the coming weeks I will be announcing SMTP support for fEmail and some more
image manipulation functionality for fImage. Feel free to
[http://twitter.com/flourishlib follow Flourish on Twitter], or
[http://feeds2.feedburner.com/flourishlib_blog subscribe to this blog] to learn
more when they are released. 

<<include path="../partials/footer.html">>