<<include path="../partials/header.html" title="Flourish Demo Site – Blog – Flourish">>

= Flourish Demo Site =

If you've never worked with Flourish before, getting started building a site
may seem a little daunting. Included below is the description and source code
for a production site written with Flourish and SQLite.

The [http://northshorewebgeeks.com northshorewebgeeks.com] site provides a
simple list of upcoming and past meetups for the North Shore Web Geeks meetup.
Rather than hand-editing the HTML and RSS feeds, Flourish was set up to provide
a simple CMS to easily update the information.

== Source Code ==

The source code for the demo can be found in the
[https://github.com/flourishlib/flourish-demo-site flourish-demo-site
repository] on Github. Github has a nice little code browser, so you can view
the code without downloading or cloning.

== Routing ==

The site is fairly simple, so I set up Apache with
[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_rewrite.html mod_rewrite] to create
some nice, clean URLs:

{{{
/                     # -> index.php  : Home/main page
/rss                  # -> index.php  : RSS feed
/manage               # -> manage.php : Lists all meetups
/manage/add           # -> manage.php : Allows adding a meetup
/manage/{date}/edit   # -> manage.php : Allows editing a meetup
/manage/{date}/delete # -> manage.php : Allows deleting a meetup
/log_in               # -> login.php  : Allows a user to log in
/log_out              # -> login.php  : Lets the user log out
/sup/*                # -> sup/*      : Static files including CSS and images
}}}

Anything other than those URLs will cause the page at `views/404.php` to be
shown.

== Directory Structure ==

The files on the filesystem are organized in the following structure:

{{{
/                     # The three php scripts that handle requests
/inc/                 # The bootstrap script init.php and config file
/inc/classes/         # The ORM classes
/inc/flourish/        # Flourish classes
/storage/db/          # The SQLite database the source .sql file
/storage/session/     # The PHP session files
/sup/css/             # The CSS files
/sup/img/             # The images
/views/               # The HTML templates for the site
}}}

== Request Handling ==

As requests are received, they are routed the appropriate PHP page by
`mod_rewrite`, however each of these pages first runs the bootstrapping code
in `inc/`. Here is an example of the execution order:

{{{
config.php -> init.php -> manage.php
}}}

== Live Instance ==

''There used to be a live instance of the site running, but it has since been
removed.''

== Installation ==

If you wish to run the demo site on your own server, you’ll need to download
the source from github and recursively `chmod` the `storage` directory to
`777`. This allows the web server to write to the SQLite database and session
directory.

{{{
chmod -R 777 /path/to/flourish_demo_site/storage
}}}

All files included with the demo site, except for graphics and CSS files, are
licensed under the MIT license. Graphics and CSS files are only provided for
demo purposes. Please see the `license.txt` file for more details.

<<include path="../partials/footer.html">>