<<include path="../partials/header.html" title="Blog – Flourish">>

= Blog =

== [/blog/MovingtoGitHub Moving to GitHub] ==
''4/2/12''

In the next few weeks there are going to be a number of changes to the Flourish
project. As you may have noticed, releases have slowed down quite a bit over the
past few months as I've found my free time being split between Flourish and my
Sublime Text work. Additionally, I'll soon be moving to a new company.

Over the past few months I have found that the current infrastructure that
Flourish is hosted on is preventing me from allowing others to contribute
without giving them full access to my server. Because of this, I've decided it
is time to move development and the website hosting over to GitHub. This will
allow me to easily permit access to the source code hosting and developers will
be able to contribute code via pull requests. Other benefits include moving the
class documentation in version control for easier collaboration.

[/blog/MovingtoGitHub Read more…]


== [/blog/AlterTableImproved Alter Table Improved] ==
''5/24/11''

A frequent complaint among developers dealing with relational database systems
is dealing with database migrations. Depending on the size of the data you are
working with, that may be the issue, however the syntax and features of
`ALTER TABLE` statements vary greatly between database systems. I’ve recently
added some functionality to Flourish to make `ALTER TABLE` statements not only
more pleasant to work with, but consistent across MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite,
Oracle, DB2 and Microsoft SQL Server.

[/blog/AlterTableImproved Read more…]


== [/blog/PHPTek11 PHP|Tek 2011] ==
''5/18/11''

One week from today, the annual PHP|Tek conference returns to Chicago for the
2011 edition. I'm excited that I'm able to attend this year, and I'd love to
meet some Flourish users in person! So, whether you want to ask questions,
suggest improvements, or grill me on the finer points of how to over-use regular
expressions, I'm down. :-)

The easiest way to get in contact will be through Twitter
[http://twitter.com/flourishlib @flourishlib]. I'll also be
available via my personal account, [http://twitter.com/wbond @wbond], but I'm
going to try and keep that to replies. I look forward to meeting you there!


== [/blog/PHPFloatingPointBug PHP Floating Point Bug] ==
''1/14/11''

Just last week a rather serious denial of service (DoS) vulnerability was
found in PHP, affecting versions 5.2.0 through 5.2.16 and 5.3.0 through 5.3.4.
The bug, [http://bugs.php.net/53632 #53632], causes PHP to enter an infinite
loop when working with the value `2.2250738585072011e-308` as a floating point
number. The simple submission of this value to a site multiple times can easily
cause the web server to become unresponsive to users.

The good news is that if you are using fRequest::get() and passing `float` to
the `$cast_to` parameter and Flourish r950 or newer, you will be automatically
protected from this vulnerability. The value `2.2250738585072011e-308` will be
converted to `2.2250738585072012e-308`, which resolves to the same floating
point value, but does not cause the infinite loop.

If you are using an older revision of Flourish, I strongly recommend you use
the `flourish.rev` file in your Flourish directory with the
[/docs/BackwardsCompatibilityBreak backwards compatibility breaks page] to
upgrade your code to the latest revision.


== [/blog/60000Tests Testing Across 12 OSes, 10 Versions of PHP and 6 Databases ] ==
''8/4/10''

Part of the goal of Flourish is to provide a solid library of code to build
web apps and websites on top of. Since PHP runs on such a variety of operating
systems and many users do not control the server they are installed on,
operating system and PHP version compatibility is important. Thanks to recent
donations by [http://imarc.net iMarc] and Luke Foreman, the [/docs/Tests
testing setup] has been expanded to include OS X 10.6 and Windows Server 2008.

With these changes, [/docs/Tests over 60,000 tests] are run with every SVN
commit, on a total of 10 different versions of PHP, running on 12 different
server environments. All database-related tests are run on the six supported
databases, and most are run using each of the 14 supported database extensions
against eight different database versions. In situations where Flourish
provides a pure-PHP fallback implementation of a non-standard PHP extension,
the tests are run both with the non-standard extension loaded and not.

[/blog/60000Tests Read more…]

<<include path="../partials/footer.html">>