<<include path="../partials/header.html" title="Moving to GitHub – Blog – Flourish">>

= Moving to GitHub =
[/blog See all blogs]

In the next few weeks there are going to be a number of changes to the Flourish
project. As you may have noticed, releases have slowed down quite a bit over
the past few months as I've found my free time being split between Flourish
and my Sublime Text work. Additionally, I'll soon be moving to a new company.

Over the past few months I have found that the current infrastructure that
Flourish is hosted on is preventing me from allowing others to contribute
without giving them full access to my server. Because of this, I've decided
it is time to move development and the website hosting over to
[https://github.com GitHub]. This will allow me to easily permit access to the
source code hosting and developers will be able to contribute code via pull
requests. Other benefits include moving the class documentation in version
control for easier collaboration.

This move is going to have a few affects on Flourish and the website:

 - Flourish will change to a [http://semver.org/ semantic versioning] system
   since Git does not have a canonical revision number
 - Tickets will be moved to GitHub issues
 - The website and blog will be moved to a GitHub site powered by Jekyll
 - The [/docs class and general documentation] will also
   move to the GitHub site (not a GitHub wiki)
 - The testing infrastructure will be moved to a system where the test VMs will
   poll a GitHub repository and run tests on any new revisions, pushing results
   back into another GitHub repo. Tests will likely be split into a separate
   repo from the classes.
 - The discussion board will hopefully be moved to Zoho Discussions, although I
   am not sure if I will be able to preserve the current contents.

Unfortunately there are a few things that aren't going to be supported moving
forward. I would love to be able to continue supporting these, but I can't
realistically do so with my other commitments. Sorry!

 - All of the source code hosting other than Git will go away - this includes
   SVN, Hg, Bazaar and Darcs.
   [https://github.com/blog/966-improved-subversion-client-support GitHub
   supports SVN clients] and the [http://hg-git.github.com/ Hg-Git] plugin
   will hopefully be enough support for Mercurial users.
 - The Advanced Download page will be going away. Moving forward there will
   be more work done in manually documenting dependencies between code, but it
   won't be possible to generate a zip file with just the required classes.

There are probably a few other small things I missed, but I think that covers
all of the big issues. If you are interested in assisting with the transition,
I'd be happy to have some help in moving issues to GitHub, and possibly
reviewing docs that have been converted.

<<include path="../partials/footer.html">>